# University-Library-Database-System
This repository contains the code for a university library database system and data warehouse, completed for the Distributed Database Management and Data Warehousing module during my time at the University of Gloucestershire.

Two separate sub-projects are contained within the repository. One, the fundamental operational database application, is contained within the folder "LibraryDatabaseApplication" and contains the operational Oracle SQL database code along with the JSPs and Enterprise Java Beans for the library database application itself (these are contained within a zip file of the same name as the parent folder and can be extracted for use). There is also code for a MongoDB database; this can be initialised by setting the database type to MongoDB. The other, the data warehouse application, is contained within the folder "DataWarehouse" and contains an edited duplicate of the operational Oracle SQL database along with an ETL process and a data warehouse, also based in Oracle SQL. As with the first application, the JSPs and Enterprise Java Beans for the data warehouse application itself are also embedded (these are contained within a zip file of the same name as the parent folder and can be extracted for use).

To run the Oracle databases, an Oracle account will be required. Within the data warehouse application, three exist: OperationalDatabase, StagingDatabase and WarehouseDatabase.

The build scripts for the MongoDB and Oracle databases are embedded. In the library database application, the MongoDB build script is named "MongoDBBuildScript.txt", while the Oracle build script is named "OracleBuildScript.sql". In the data warehouse application, the operational database build script is named "OperationalDatabase.sql", the code for the staging database build script and ETL process is named "StagingDatabase.sql", and the data warehouse build script is named "WarehouseDatabase.sql". These need to be executed prior to running the J2EE application. Code for partitioning, bitmap indexing and user accounts is integrated into the warehouse database build script via comments; these were unable to be implemented during the project itself due to Oracle account limitations, but are in the code as comments to exhibit a proof of concept.
